Document the build system (#7312)
ComplianceAsCode/content: docs/manual/developer/07_understanding_build_system.md

# Understanding the ComplianceAsCode build system

## Introduction

> 

Reviewer: We usually use the system "one sentence = one line". The advantage is that you don't have to re-wrap everything.

Author: Sorry, thta's how I ended up writing tis one. Do you want me to reflow it now?

Reviewer: No, that would be a waste of time. But you can try to use it in you future additions.

This section aims to provide an introduction to the ComplianceAsCode build
system to developers interested in extending or debugging it.

Before beginning, it is generally expected that some familiarity with the
relevant standards in this space are understood. Among others, these are:

 - [XCCDF](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/security-content-automation-protocol/specifications/xccdf),
   the eXtensible Configuration Checklist Description Format; this is a
   textual representation format of various steps in hardening a particular
   system.
 - [OVAL](https://oval.cisecurity.org/), the Open Vulnerability and Assessment
   Language; this is a standardized mechanism for auditing various compliance
   checks.
 - [OCIL](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/security-content-automation-protocol/specifications/ocil),
   the Open Checklist Interactive Language, an expressive language for
   handling manual compliance checks.
 - [CPE](https://nvd.nist.gov/products/cpe), the Common Platform Enumeration;
   a scheme for identifying software and systems.

>  - A DS, Datastream format, a mechanism for combining the above into a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - SCAP source data stream format, a mechanism for combining the above into a single
```

many of the artifacts we generate are XML-based so extensive XSLT processing
occurs after building the initial structure in Python. Finally, OpenSCAP
combines and references several files for us to build the finished artifacts.

### CMake Structure

CMake requires projects have an entry point called `/CMakeLists.txt`. This
uses the CMake language and drives building and installing the project. This
file contains several things:

 1. The many build-time options for customizing the types of content generated,
 2. The hand-off for generating each product's specific content,
 3. Common installation, testing, and distribution targets.

However, the specifics of building a particular product are contained in the
shared module located at `cmake/SSGCommon.cmake`. This file contains all of
the CMake logic to build a particular product and exposes the top-level macro
`ssg_build_product(...)`. This macro generates per-product build, installation,
and testing targets. While the specifics should be understood from this file
directly, in general this takes the following outline of steps in rough order
of occurrence:

 1. Generate SCE content and metadata,

>  2. Generate a shorthand XML from various YAML files (like rules, variables,

Reviewer: shorthand is a term that appears here without prior explanation in this document

Author: I ended up writing this after I wrote the CMake documentation. I don't think shorthand is ever defined elsewhere either and is kinda in flux as the build process changes. Do you have a suggestion around how to introduce it? It isn't a standard we can link to externally, right?

Reviewer: It isn't a standard, it's our invention and unfortunately the format isn't documented anywhere. I think you have introduced it nicely in the code comments: "a single XML document that resembles the structure of the XCCDF but isn't standards compliant", you can use it here as well.

Author: @jan-cerny updated :)
